welcome to saster scale 2021 we are so
thrilled to have rob israk cmo and gm of
europe from topalti with us this morning
uh or afternoon wherever you are tuning
in from rob's tuning in and coming to us
live from london
so um welcome welcome i see some more
folks filtering in
we're really thrilled to have you all we
have 20 minutes with rob he is going to
have a few minutes at the end for q a so
please make sure to take advantage of
that by dropping your questions for rob
in the bottom section of your zoom
screen um i will also send you some
reminders about that but let us know if
you do have any issues we're really
thrilled to have rob um and really
excited to have the next few minutes
with him so before um we fully get
started um let's join raw let's please
join me in welcoming rob um i'm gonna
let you start off rob with why the data
matters for the session um can you
quickly tell some results that people
can expect from this presentation today
yeah absolutely so we'll go through
how to make decisions uh decision-making
criteria
when to make decisions timing of
decisions
um where data fits and where it doesn't
um and i've got a further slide that
goes into more details on the agenda but
um you know we'll go through that kind
of series of decision-making criteria
that
are critical at various points in your
maturity as a fast growing business
we're thrilled to learn more so rob
please take it away
great so sastra likes uh likes to start
with the dashboard so this is a one of
many clips of dashboards that
that that we use
at topalti to run our business
specifically
of course in my role i oversee marketing
and i also oversee
our international expansion chiefly
europe which is the reason i've moved
out to london
and so this is one of our dashboards
where we monitor
uh new leads that
come into the system
and the trend lines uh the performance
against quota the performance by key
segments whether it's
industry sectors or by
lead sources or by
product lines and such like that of
course similar this is only a lead
dashboard so
as you all know or at least the folks on
the phone who are
in the marketing function um the
beginning of a journey as a lead
there's
many metrics prior to the journey and we
measure those as well from a brand
perspective and engagement and then
there's touch points after which we call
nurture leads and opportunities and then
of course sales and bookings the things
that just really matter and then of
course in my other capacities we have
different dashboards to measure
different things but this gives you an
example of the types of of dashboard
that we use at the beginning of the
funnel and yes literally probably five
times a day i refresh this dashboard and
five other dashboards to run the various
different parts of the business and you
know i'll talk a little bit today from a
marketing perspective as well as a
europe gm perspective but literally
every department our business every
leader and then their vps underneath
have their own set of dashboards and
those all line up across the business we
tend to be a very
data oriented uh decision-making company
um and so um i'll talk a little bit
about how we've done that at scale uh to
hit the levels of growth that we were
added the business
so a little agenda i gave a little
preview on that already but
we'll talk a little bit of criteria
that's worked at the policy and worked
for me personally uh to make strong
decision making um a bit of a guide in
decision making or some criteria of
things to do and not to do
um i'll go through a used case of global
expansion so i moved out here
to london and in december 2020 with the
mindset of expanding
into europe where
england or uk was our first step in that
foray and so i'll go into uh some of the
approaches we used to make that
uh those decisions that had to be made
um and then we'll talk a little bit
about measuring success
and then we'll have time and then for q
a so please do use the q a button that
you see on the screen in the zoom chat
uh to add your questions in there and
then i'll do my best to get uh get to
each one of your questions that you
include there
so uh you know in terms of the
philosophy of decision making that i've
utilized the company utilizes with
success uh first step is you know
determine the right kpis right you have
to understand where your business is
going make sure you're aligned with the
rest of the business on those
key goals and understanding what are the
key metrics in your department or your
unit that you oversee that line up those
core goals for the business so what are
your
key kpis what are the businesses key
kpis they should all be connected um as
a first step second step of course is
creating the measurement system um i can
tell you in the marketing field i can't
tell you how many marketers
unfortunately don't spend a lot of time
uh setting up the right measurement
system
it requires having a strong marketing
ops function a strong sales ops function
often a strong setup of your
um your marketing infrastructure and if
you're in a different department maybe
your erp infrastructure or you know
other types of systems and technology to
make sure you are able to measure what
you're
uh what you're supposed to measure um
sometimes you talk to people they say oh
we we don't measure this because we want
the systems to measure it that's the
wrong answer get the systems to measure
it it's not only important to it it'll
be important tomorrow make sure you have
the right data that lines up with the
goals in the business and you're
incentivizing and measuring people to do
the right things for the business not
just a checkpoint that says i did my job
well uh let data be your guide to
decision making so
um i i generally believe that some data
is always better than no data some data
doesn't mean it's statistically
significant that doesn't mean it hits a
certain sample size get the data that's
available ideally quantitative is better
than qualitative but both are data
get whatever data you can and let those
guide your decision making they're not
going to tell you what decisions to make
ultimately we're all grown-ups we're all
business people we have to make
decisions with or without data you'll
make a decision slightly more accurately
the more data you have and every bit
more data you have the more accurate
your decision-making uh will be and the
more confidence you'll be i'll tell you
that when ken hired me about seven years
ago one of the key
um lines when i was interviewing with
him he asked me how do i know that my
decision is right and of course that's a
loaded question asking a marketer how do
i know my decision is right and what i
said is i don't know my decisions right
uh i will make a plan i will use
intuition i will use as much data as i
can humanly use to make that decision
but reality is as much as i think i make
fairly good decisions and have a process
and such i'll probably be wrong 40
percent of time and my plan will be
right 60 time um or maybe even closer to
50 50. um and from there i will measure
the data i'll look at the data i'll see
what makes sense from that perspective
and i'll do more of what makes sense and
less what doesn't and so he really liked
that that uh that answer it was one of
the reasons i i ended up uh being
selected for the job but it kind of
gives you a little light into that
philosophy some data is better no data
let data guide the decision making
um don't think that just because you're
an intuitive genius that you're going to
be right most the time
and then own your bias right know that
you're not perfect even with a little
data that you still may make the wrong
decision
try and be objective look at the further
data post execution and modify your data
based on the current state
and even if you have a bias call
yourself on it it doesn't mean a
hypothesis or bias is wrong just make
sure you're objective about assessing
that
um on the other hand data won't make the
decision for you um
folks that feel like you you measure
data and you don't make any decision
until you have 100 of the data or the
data statistically significant um it
doesn't allow you to move fast enough in
business and to make decisions at the
pace required
um you're a leader for a reason
and part of the reason you're a leader
is that you make decisions and so
ideally you have data to make decisions
um a part one decision is to say no i'm
not gonna make a decision here we're
gonna delay the decision while we gather
more but ultimately you're gonna have to
make a decision and data very rarely
will tell you exactly what decision to
make it'll simply guide and direct the
decisions to get them more accurate over
time
certainly past results don't predict
future or success so it's a tricky
balance on this one
you do want to get data and most data is
past results sometimes you actually have
to take a stab in the dark at something
invest in something let's just say sas
street for example we're right here um
but if if you were to invest in a
vehicle sometimes you actually you can
look at as much data in terms of who the
attendees are and what they look like
and their makeup and such but you have
to invest up front and then you find you
get the results and then you measure it
and there you have to be objective and
say did it work or did an not based on
the kpis uh we set up so you do have to
do some things uh uh execute first to
get data you also sometimes need to
look at the past data and use that to
guide your decision making going forward
on the other hand
your business will change trends change
there's strategic
um decision making and factors that are
that are mixed in the decision there's
conflicting data and so it won't predict
the future it'll it can guide you to
make better decisions but sometimes your
business changes you have to try new
things maybe things that you tried in
the past that didn't work but the
businesses now change you have a new
product line or you have a better fit in
a certain segment and now it's worth
trying new things because your business
has changed so don't let data be a jail
cell for you
it should guide you but but it also
shouldn't hold back your growth
ultimately
we all need to grow companies that means
we have to take chances and do new
things and try new things
of course include your team in decision
making get their ideas oftentimes their
ideas will be better than yours i can
tell you i'm very far away from the
ground at this point and so i need
inputs from folks on my team ideas data
insights
to guide those decisions but at the end
of the day
you're the leader you have to make
decisions um and you can't use
collaboration
and uh teamwork as an excuse to not make
a decision to be accountable
and finally understand decision making
cycles so uh decisions do change at the
time a decision that that's made today
on a certain criteria based on certain
data may not be the same thing in the
future with different
situations different uh criteria
certainly uh you know evaluating
let's say again a a
a live event would have been different
in pre-covered world versus a covert
world right so that's an example of
situation changing beneath you
and uh the decision-making criteria then
therefore changing as well
a few do's and don'ts um i think i've
actually hit on most of the items
on the left-hand side ultimately you own
the decision with date or without
make it
bringing others of course to help guide
the decision but it's your decision at
the end of the day trying to be as
objective as humanly possible and use
data to guide your decision
uh check your biases um sometimes it's
healthy to be devil's attitude advocate
or when you're asking peers or asking
your teammates for feedback uh purposely
include people who can be devil's
advocate to test
acid test things and certainly if you're
not certain about a decision that's the
perfect time to bring in
um devil's advocate uh opinions into
decision
you constantly have to revisit decisions
to ensure they're valid just because a
decision was made at a point in time the
world changes the business changes the
business has different goals over time
and you have to constantly realign
um and certainly testing alignment with
business strategy so for example let's
say marketing uh runs a program and the
program actually shows the generated
leads it generates ops the cost prop is
good
maybe the opt to sale conversion right
in the roi is actually satisfactory when
you dig into those those uh even those
deals or those ops perhaps there are
let's say five thousand dollar
uh deals that have been sourced or five
thousand dollar
and maybe there's a different data set
out there a different analysis out there
that says cac
looks at the cost of customer
acquisition says oh the cost for
customer acquisition is strongest in
these segments they have to be 50
employees and above to hit a certain roi
threshold for example and you look back
at that test that looked ri positive
from that one measurement system but now
it conflicts with this because when you
actually look into those date those data
points most of those companies were 30
employees or the such um
you should make sure that your decisions
aren't just isolated in your department
and based on the data you have but also
what other factors are happening to the
business what are what is the target
market where are we going from a cap
perspective or strategic direction is
that aligned are you doing things in a
silo
so so make sure that generally your
strategy or kpis and your measurement
system is aligned and you're at least
looking at it from a
balanced scorecard approach i'm a big
advocate of a balanced scorecard
philosophy i don't often think that one
data point
leads you the right direction but it's
usually a balance of a few key metrics
on the other side again we've talked
about only trusting your instinct and
intuition make sure you test your
theories you do use data wherever you
can and be objective about it
definitely don't be afraid to try new
things you often have to try new things
to get data to inform future decision
making
and that's a trap you see
set a lot particularly by people not in
marketing or the go to market function
frankly
[Music]
don't ignore new information the world
changes your point of view changes the
business strategy changes the
competitive landscape changes
the economy changes situations like
covid change
and so you have to be factoring in these
new inputs constantly
and don't assume just because you've
seen this from previous jobs previous
experience and the such that's exactly
the same different businesses at
different points in time that maturity
have different target markets different
icps different strategic outcomes
different goals
and while that is data and it should be
considered you should also consider that
it might not be appropriate for the
current condition
so uh this is an example that we thought
would be useful um certainly uh part of
my new role was to help uh basically
initiate our international growth which
is a big opportunity for its polity uh
the the product we sell
is a payables automation platform it's
particularly robust when it comes to
global expansion whether it's a
multi-subsidiary or a global supplier
base and so from that perspective we
started looking at global expansion
and the the question always was when
right we always knew that this was
actually a pretty big opportunity one
our product our product differentiation
our product strategy
um was always robust and differentiated
from global perspective we're certainly
the the strongest from a global payables
perspective in the world
and we always knew that the other data
point that supported that is without
trying literally the go-to-market engine
of this company has been focused on us
because it's it's a huge market right
and a huge opportunity for the business
but without trying we literally got 20
of our customers not from outside of the
u.s and so
from that perspective you look at the
data and literally the demand from the
world is telling you we should be in
that market whether we want to or not
like we're we're trying to focus on us
and we're getting customers from all
around the world
um
and so that was a compelling data point
that led us to say you know what yes
going global is a key
uh long-term growth opportunity for the
business
yes
it does create a bit of a distraction
from u.s because it's hard enough to
focus and execute effectively in the us
alone and creating a new international
unit is complex and uh can create some
distractions and complexity for the
business we have to find the right time
uh to turn that button on when you have
a data point as compelling as that or 10
20 of your clients without trying what's
going to happen when you try um that's a
great uh a great place to start another
data point we had again is you can cut
within that of where the customers are
coming in where the opportunities are
coming and where the leads are coming
from geographically you can go down the
funnel and say which markets within that
20 should be the most effective most
easily just turn the go to market engine
on you do things right for our product
and compliance and back office and you
should be set up for success so it seems
like we're almost time to go to
questions looks like we have just about
maybe two minutes to address a few of
the questions that are coming in so
okay thanks taylor i'll jump right to
that then um i'll wrap this page up so a
few things you look into really quickly
of course you look at the total
addressable market uh from our
perspective that's mid-market so we
sized the mid-market across all the
different geographies and the size to
make sure that the opportunity was large
enough
and then we started looking at
competitive sets we started looking at
product market fit where do the values
and the differentiations that quality
brings the table match with the product
needs in these markets are some markets
not willing to pay enough are some
markets not international enough to
value some of our differentiators are
some markets not we tend to be adopted
by uh tech companies and high growth
companies are some markets better than
others from a vc funding
entrepreneurship perspective those are
all factors you look at along with needs
in the markets
of course you have to set up a great
culture in the company get the dna right
it's something america topology's done
great in the us we wanted to make sure
we replicate that as well and finally
complexity and things like compliance
which are we have to worry about because
we're fintech so having said that i'm
going to stop sharing and go to q a
so
a few questions on the q a
um
what is the best ways to successfully
integrate new teams with existing ones a
great question actually uh so thank you
um from
uh anonymous attendee um
the uh
it's a it's a really good question i
think the first piece is know your
values and your employee value
proposition upfront and so when you're
hiring your first international
uh people you have to be really really
sensitive to that really listen to
do they fit in to the values do they you
know at a policy one of our values is
gsd it stands for
get done um uh and so
do these people possess that another
fact we have to consider is can they
scale with us we're growing at about 100
per year can these folks not only do the
job today but scale with us in the
future and that means they have to
probably get their hands pretty dirty
and get into grunt work
at the same time they have to think
strategically and adapt really fast fast
because we're moving fast and changing
quickly so i think the hiring up front
is really really critical
before we started of course we have
covid
going on as well so before we start we
had to do um
a series of uh we did a series of
dinners together uh and various
gatherings so that we could all meet
each other and build relationships and
trust prior to kicking off on boarding
then we spent a lot of time making sure
the onboarding experience was really
great
um and then just ongoing ways to
uh create collaboration and trust let's
teammates make decisions and not
everything has to go to top to be
approved so those were a few of those
aspects
uh next question
what do you do when the data goes
against the anecdotes you hear from your
team in the front lines it's a really
great question
i think
there'll be different people that have
different uh different answers for this
but personally as long as the data is
accurate and you're measuring the right
thing data trumps opinions um if you
consistently listen to the front lines
and opinions without data it will lead
you astray eventually and so i think you
do have to strike a balance it doesn't
mean you don't listen to opinions and
you don't question the data and make
sure it's measuring the right things and
understand why it's saying what it's
saying but ultimately ultimately
i believe and this has treated me well
throughout the course of my career and
the companies i've worked for well in
terms of growth
that data trump's opinion
so i think that's uh that's the
questions we have
uh
for today do we have um seeing if we
have
any others here
i think we're all set rob we really
appreciate the time um and yes everyone
please get in touch with rob if you have
more questions after but um thanks so
much and everyone please make sure to
join some of the other sessions today at
scale
thank you
great talking
[Music]
you